Proton Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of Patients with High Risk Prostate Cancer
ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT04725903
Sponsor Emory University
Information provided by Pretesh Patel, Emory University (Responsible Party)
Last Update Posted 2024-11-14


Study Overview
Brief Summary
This phase II trial investigates whether proton radiation therapy directed to the prostate tumor, pelvic, and para-aortic lymph nodes, is an effective way to treat patients with high-risk or lymph node positive prostate cancer who are receiving radiation therapy, and if it will result in fewer gastrointestinal and genitourinary side effects. Proton beam therapy is a new type of radiotherapy that directs multiple beams of protons (positively charged subatomic particles) at the tumor target, where they deposit the bulk of their energy with essentially no residual radiation beyond the tumor. By reducing the exposure of the healthy tissues and organs to radiation in the treatment of prostate cancer, proton therapy has the potential to better spare healthy tissue and reduce the side effects of radiation therapy.
Detailed Description
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the rate of acute grade 2+ gastrointestinal toxicity compared to historical photon treatments.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of acute grade 2+ genitourinary toxicity compared to historical photon treatments.

II. To assess the feasibility of extended-field proton irradiation of high-risk prostate.

III. To demonstrate safety of proton therapy followed by high dose rate (HDR) boost.

IV. To determine patient-reported outcomes (PROs) of toxicity.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo conventionally fractionated proton beam therapy daily on Monday-Friday. Patients may receive a high-dose rate brachytherapy boost.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, and 1.5, 2, 2.5, and 3 years.

Official Title
Extended-Field Lymph Node Proton Irradiation for High Risk Prostate Cancer
Conditions 
Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC V8
Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC V8
Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC V8
Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC V8
Intervention / Treatment 
Radiation: High-Dose Rate Brachytherapy
Radiation: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy
Other: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Other: Survey Administration
Other Study ID Numbers 
STUDY00000329
NCI-2020-07113 ( Registry Identifier ) (REGISTRY: CTRP (Clinical Trial Reporting Program))
RAD5131-20 ( Other Identifier ) (OTHER: Emory University Hospital/Winship Cancer Institute)
P30CA138292 ( U.S. NIH Grant/Contract )
Study Start (Actual) 
2021-02-01
Primary Completion (Estimated) 
2025-12-31
Study Completion (Estimated) 
2026-12-31
Enrollment (Estimated) 
30
Study Type 
Interventional
Phase 
Not Applicable
Resource links provided by the National Library of Medicine NIH National Library of Medicine, National Center for Biotechnology Information
MedlinePlus related topics:  Prostate Cancer 
FDA Drug and Device Resources
Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

Study Contact 
Name: Pretesh Patel, MD

Phone Number: 404-778-3473

Email: pretesh.patel@emory.edu

This study has 1 location
United States
Georgia Locations
Atlanta, Georgia, United States, 30322
RecruitingEmory University Hospital/Winship Cancer Institute
Contact :
Ardith R. DeShay
404-686-1858  adeshay@emory.edu
Contact :
Pretesh R. Patel, MD
Click to view interactive map
Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Pathologically confirmed high-risk prostate cancer fulfilling any one of the following criteria:

Gleason grade 8 or higher
cT3b (seminal vesicle involvement) or cT4
Prostate specific antigen [PSA] > 20 (or PSA >10 if on finasteride)
Clinically or pathologically positive regional lymph nodes within the inguinal, external iliac, internal iliac, obturator, peri-rectal, pre-sacral, common iliac, or lower para-oaortc (inferior to the L2-L3 interspace) basins
Zubrod performance status 0-2
Complete blood cell (CBC)/differential obtained within 90 days prior to registration on study
Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) >= 1,500 cells/mm^3
Platelets >= 100,000 cells/mm^3
Hemoglobin >= 8.0 g/dl (Note: The use of transfusion or other intervention to achieve hemoglobin [Hgb] >= 8.0 g/dl is acceptable)
Patient must be able to provide study specific informed consent
Exclusion Criteria:

Absence of bone metastasis by bone scan or metabolic imaging (e.g. NaF PET, FACBC PET, PSMA PET, etc.) before the start of therapy.
Absence of distant lymph node metastasis by CT and/or MRI before the start of therapy.
Previous radical surgery (prostatectomy) or cryosurgery for prostate cancer
Prior radiotherapy, including brachytherapy, to the region of the study cancer that would result in overlap of radiation therapy fields
Uncontrolled intercurrent illness including, but not limited to, inflammatory bowel disease, human immunodeficiency virus infection, ongoing or active infection, symptomatic congestive heart failure, unstable angina pectoris, cardiac arrhythmia, or psychiatric illness/social situations that would limit compliance with study requirements
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years and older (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
Male
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : N/A
Interventional Model  : Single Group Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: Treatment (proton beam therapy)
Patients undergo conventionally fractionated or hypofractionated proton beam therapy daily on Monday-Friday directed to the prostate, pelvic lymph nodes, and para-aortic lymph nodes. Patients may receive an optional high-dose rate brachytherapy boost. Androgen deprivation therapy is required but left to the discretion of the treating physician.
Radiation: High-Dose Rate Brachytherapy
Receive high-dose rate brachytherapy boost

Other Names:
Brachytherapy, High Dose
Radiation: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy
Undergo proton beam therapy

Other Names:
PBRT
Proton
Proton Radiation Therapy
Radiation, Proton Beam
Other: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Ancillary studies

Other Names:
Quality of Life Assessment
Other: Survey Administration
Ancillary studies

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Acute grade 2+ gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity	The rate of grade 2+ gastrointestinal toxicity within 30 days of receiving radiation therapy (RT) will be measured. It will be compared to the theorized reduction to 24% toxicity using the exact binomial test. Assessments are based on version 5 Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), and the worst severity of GI toxicity will be assessed.	Up to 3 years
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Acute grade 2+ genitourinary (GU) toxicity rate	The rate of grade 2+ genitourinary toxicity within 30 days of receiving radiation therapy (RT) will be measured. Assessments are based on version 5 CTCAE, and the worst severity of GU toxicity will also be assessed.	Up to 3 years
Optimal frequency of cone beam computed tomography (CT)	Will determine the optimal frequency of cone beam CT during treatment and assess subsequent need for adaptive re-planning. The feasibility of extended-field proton irradiation of high-risk prostate cancer will be estimated using a re-planning rate of less than 10%. The re-planning rate will be estimated as binary variable, yes or no. The exact 95% confidence interval (CI) around the 10 % re-planning count based on the binomial distribution for the estimated 30 patients will be used (0.021-0.265). The study will be deemed feasible if the observed rate is not higher than the upper bound of the estimated 95% CI.	Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Patient reported health related quality of life (QOL) - PRO-CTCAU GI	Assessed using Patient Reported Outcomes-CTCAE GI toxicity	Up to 3 years
Patient reported health related quality of life (QOL) - PRO-CTCAU GU	Assessed using Patient Reported Outcomes-CTCAE GU toxicity	Up to 3 years
Patient reported health related quality of life (QOL) - IPSS	International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS)	Up to 3 years
Patient reported health related quality of life (QOL) - EPIC-CP	Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice (EPIC-CP)	Up to 3 years
Chronic GI Toxicity	The rate of any grade gastrointestinal toxicity occurring after 90 days from the completion of radiation therapy(RT). Assessments are based on version 5 Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), and the worst severity of GI toxicity will be assessed.	Up to 3 years
Chronic GU Toxicity	The rate of any grade genitourinary toxicity occurring after 90 days from the completion of radiation therapy(RT). Assessments are based on version 5 Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), and the worst severity of GU toxicity will be assessed.	Up to 3 years
Biochemical failure	Assessed by the Phoenix definition (prostate specific antigen [PSA] >= 2 ng/ml over the nadir PSA).	Baseline up to pre-RT
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Emory University
Collaborators 
National Cancer Institute (NCI)
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:Pretesh R Patel,Emory University Hospital/Winship Cancer Institute
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2021-01-08
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2021-01-21
First Posted 
2021-01-27
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that met QC Criteria 
2024-11-12
Last Update Posted 
2024-11-14
Last Verified 
2024-11
More Information
Record History
Expand all / Collapse all
Terms related to this study
Additional Relevant MeSH Terms
Genital Neoplasms, Male
Urogenital Neoplasms
Neoplasms by Site
Neoplasms
Genital Diseases, Male
Genital Diseases
Urogenital Diseases
Prostatic Diseases
Male Urogenital Diseases
Prostatic Neoplasms
Radiotherapy
Therapeutics
Heavy Ion Radiotherapy
Cations, Monovalent
Cations
Ions
Electrolytes
Inorganic Chemicals
Hydrogen
Elements
Gases
Nucleons
Elementary Particles
Physical Phenomena
Brachytherapy
Proton Therapy
Protons
Plan for Individual Participant Data (IPD)
Plan to Share Individual Participant Data (IPD)?
No
IPD Plan Description
Results of the trial and not individual patient data will be shared. The study protocol, consent, and investigator's brochure will be available. The statistical plan is incorporated into the protocol, along with inclusion and exclusion criteria.
Drug and device information, study documents, and helpful links
Studies a U.S. FDA-Regulated Drug Product
No
Studies a U.S. FDA-Regulated Device Product
Yes
Product Manufactured in and Exported from the U.S.
No