Transportation for Cancer Care Navigation Tool for Reducing Travel Barriers Among Patients With Solid Tumors Receiving Radiation Therapy (TRACT)
ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT06541158
Sponsor Emory University
Information provided by Jinbing Bai, Emory University (Responsible Party)
Last Update Posted 2025-04-04

Study Overview
Brief Summary
This clinical trial evaluates whether the Transportation for Cancer Care Navigation Tool (TRACT) can reduce travel barriers among patients with solid tumors receiving radiation therapy. It is estimated that 20-30% patients with cancer experience travel-related barriers for cancer care. This is a particular problem for patients with radiation therapy as these patients frequently receive multiple treatment cycles, which often require daily treatment for multiple weeks or months. Addressing travel barriers has been a prerequisite for cancer care as travel barriers negatively influence cancer treatment adherence and cancer care outcomes, such as survival and quality of life. The TRACT program may help reduce travel barriers and therefore promote health equity among patients with solid tumors receiving radiation therapy.
Detailed Description
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To work collaboratively with a Community Advisory Board (CAB, e.g., patients, caregivers, clinicians, and social workers) to refine a theory-driven TRACT program for solid tumor patients receiving radiation therapy (RT) with travel barriers.

II. To evaluate the feasibility of the TRACT program for patients with solid tumors receiving RT with travel barriers.

III. To explore the efficacy of the TRACT program on RT adherence (canceling, delaying, missing, or terminating essential care) and patient-reported outcomes (PROs) (distress, financial toxicity, and quality of life [QOL]) compared to enhanced usual care (EUC, usual care + transportation awareness brief video with Patient Advocate Foundation [PAF] pamphlet).

OUTLINE:

STAGE I (CAB): Participants meet with the study research team to develop and refine the TRACT program.

STAGE II: Patients are randomized to 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive the TRACT program consisting: of 1) Screening of travel barriers; 2) Awareness of transportation obstacles and resources using videos, 3) Assistance with transportation resource application and utilization, and 4) Alignment of community resources to navigate individualized transportation support by the trained travel navigator for 3 months.

GROUP II: Patients receive usual care with PAF pamphlet for 3 months.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 3 months.

Official Title
Testing the Feasibility of a Transportation for Cancer Care Navigation Tool (TRACT) in Solid Tumors Patients Receiving Radiotherapy
Conditions 
Malignant Solid Neoplasm
Intervention / Treatment 
Other: Best Practice
Other: Discussion
Other: Educational Intervention
Behavioral: Health Promotion and Care
Other: Media Intervention
Other: Questionnaire Administration
Other Study ID Numbers 
STUDY00007528
NCI-2024-05756 ( Registry Identifier ) (REGISTRY: CTRP (Clinical Trial Reporting Program))
STUDY00007528
WINSHIP6207-24 ( Other Identifier ) (OTHER: Emory University Hospital/Winship Cancer Institute)
P30CA138292 ( U.S. NIH Grant/Contract )
Study Start (Actual) 
2024-11-06
Primary Completion (Estimated) 
2026-02-28
Study Completion (Estimated) 
2027-02-28
Enrollment (Estimated) 
76
Study Type 
Interventional
Phase 
Not Applicable
Resource links provided by the National Library of Medicine NIH National Library of Medicine, National Center for Biotechnology Information
FDA Drug and Device Resources
Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 4 locations
United States
Georgia Locations
Atlanta, Georgia, United States, 30308
Not yet recruitingEmory Proton Therapy Center
Contact :
Jinbing Bai, PhD, RN
404-727-2466  jinbing.bai@emory.edu
Contact :
Maria Norman
404-727-2466  maria.norman@emory.edu
Atlanta, Georgia, United States, 30308
RecruitingEmory University Hospital Midtown
Contact :
Jinbing Bai, PhD, RN
404-727-2466  jinbing.bai@emory.edu
Contact :
Maria Norman
maria.norman@emory.edu
Atlanta, Georgia, United States, 30322
RecruitingEmory University Hospital/Winship Cancer Institute
Contact :
Jinbing Bai, PhD, RN
404-727-2466  jinbing.bai@emory.edu
Contact :
Maria Norman
404-727-2466  maria.norman@emory.edu
Principal Investigator :
Jinbing Bai
Atlanta, Georgia, United States, 30342
RecruitingEmory Saint Joseph's Hospital
Contact :
Jinbing Bai, PhD, RN
404-727-2466  jinbing.bai@emory.edu
Contact :
Maria Norman
404-727-2466  maria.norman@emory.edu
Click to view interactive map
Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Age ≥ 18 years
Diagnosed with solid tumors
Undergoing RT (not excluded with chemotherapy)
Competent to give consent
English-speaking
With travel barriers as screened by the reliable and validated 10-item Transportation Barriers Measure. In this study, item 2 ("how much trouble is it for you to get transportation to your doctor or treatment?") from the general barriers domain will be used to screen patients for travel barriers
Exclusion Criteria:

Receive palliative care
Are non-English-speaking (excluded due to pilot data without fund to support translation services)
Are enrolled in lodging programs (e.g., the American Cancer Society [ACS] Hope Lodge®)
Have major depression/anxiety disorders that interfere with their ability to participate (based on the electronic medical records report)
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years and older (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Supportive Care
Allocation  : Randomized
Interventional Model  : Parallel Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: Stage I (CAB)
Participants meet with the study research team to develop and refine the TRACT program.
Other: Discussion
Participate in a CAB

Other Names:
Discuss
Experimental: Stage II Group I (TRACT program)
Patients receive the TRACT program consisting: of 1) Screening of travel barriers; 2) Awareness of transportation obstacles and resources using videos, 3) Assistance with transportation resource application and utilization, and 4) Alignment of community resources to navigate individualized transportation support by the trained travel navigator for 3 months.
Behavioral: Health Promotion and Care
Receive the TRACT program

Other: Questionnaire Administration
Ancillary studies

Active Comparator: Stage II Group II (usual care, video, pamphlet)
Patients receive usual care with PAF pamphlet for 3 months.
Other: Best Practice
Receive usual care

Other Names:
standard of care
standard therapy
Other: Educational Intervention
Receive PAF pamphlet

Other Names:
Education for Intervention
Intervention by Education
Intervention through Education
Intervention, Educational
Other: Media Intervention
Receive transportation awareness brief video

Other: Questionnaire Administration
Ancillary studies

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Feasibility of screening patients for the Transportation for Cancer Care Navigation Tool (TRACT) program	Will be assessed by response rates, time burden (minutes to complete the measure), and percent of positive screenings. Will use descriptive statistics. Differences between the two groups will be assessed by an independent two-sample t-test or Chi-squared test if applicable. A 95% level of statistical confidence will be assumed.	At T0 (pre-intervention) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Recruitment to the TRACT program (Feasibility)	Will be assessed by the number of patients screened and randomized. Will use descriptive statistics. Differences between the two groups will be assessed by an independent two-sample t-test or Chi-squared test if applicable. A 95% level of statistical confidence will be assumed.	At T0 (pre-intervention) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Retention and adherence rate (Feasibility)	Will be assessed by the total number of meetings and time spent with the travel navigator for travel resources, percentage of patients using travel resources, percentage of patients with completed measures. Differences between the two groups will be assessed by an independent two-sample t-test or Chi-squared test if applicable. A 95% level of statistical confidence will be assumed.	At T0 (pre-intervention) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Acceptability of the Transportation for Cancer Care Navigation Tool	Will be assessed by the 4-item Acceptability of Intervention Measure with Cronbach alpha=0.85-0.91. Differences between the two groups will be assessed by an independent two-sample t-test or Chi-squared test if applicable. A 95% level of statistical confidence will be assumed.	At T0 (pre-intervention) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Travel barriers	Will be reported as transportation mode (e.g., public transportation, drive-myself, drive-someone else drives me), owning a car (yes/no), parking cost, and travel cost for each appointment. Travel distance and time to cancer treatment facilities will be estimated by ArcGIS 10.3. Categorical and continuous variables will be used to present this outcome variable.	At T0 (3 months) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Treatment adherence	Will be assessed by canceling, missing, delaying, or terminating essential care. Nonadherence rates will be calculated as the number of no-shows, same-day cancellations, delays, and early stoppage of treatment divided by the total number of treatment days based on data within the electronic health records (EMRs). A percentage of completion rate of treatment will be calculated to present the treatment adherence.	At T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Distress	Will be measured by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Distress Thermometer. The one-item 11-point Likert scale represented on a visual graphic of a thermometer ranging from 0 (no distress) to 10 (extreme distress) will be used to assess patients' distress. Will be assessed using mixed-effect analysis of variance to model the correlations.	At T0 (3 months) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Financial toxicity	Will be measured by the Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity (COST). The COST is a 5-point Likert scale evaluating financial toxicity in the past week. Will be assessed using mixed-effect analysis of variance to model the correlations.	At T0 (3 months) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Quality of life (QOL)	Will be measured by the European QoL 5-Dimension questionnaire (EQ-5D), a widely used instrument to measure patients' QOL. The EQ-5D is a 2-part questionnaire. Will be calculated based on the technique of composite time trade-off preferences and scores of the 5 domains, indicating that -0.573 = worst health and 1 = best health. Will be assessed using mixed-effect analysis of variance to model the correlations.	At T0 (3 months) and T1 (3 months post-intervention)
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Emory University
Collaborators 
National Cancer Institute (NCI)
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:Jinbing Bai,Emory University Hospital/Winship Cancer Institute
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2024-08-02
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2024-08-02
First Posted 
2024-08-07
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that met QC Criteria 
2025-04-02
Last Update Posted 
2025-04-04
Last Verified 
2025-04
More Information
Record History
Expand all / Collapse all
Terms related to this study
Additional Relevant MeSH Terms
Guidelines as Topic
Quality Assurance, Health Care
Quality of Health Care
Health Services Administration
Health Care Quality, Access, and Evaluation
Quality Indicators, Health Care
Child Health Services
Community Health Services
Health Services
Health Care Facilities Workforce and Services
Preventive Health Services
Socioeconomic Factors
Population Characteristics
Investigative Techniques
Health Education
Practice Guidelines as Topic
Standard of Care
Early Intervention, Educational
Educational Status
Methods
Health Promotion
Drug and device information, study documents, and helpful links
Studies a U.S. FDA-Regulated Drug Product
No
Studies a U.S. FDA-Regulated Device Product
No
Product Manufactured in and Exported from the U.S.
No